Homework for Chapter 2 of Learning MySQL (2006 edition), from p. 94:

Exercises:
1) What is command completion?

Command completion is a great time-saving feature; when you start to type the name
of a command, file, or directory, pressing the Tab key cycles through names that could
match. The best way to understand this is to try it. For example, when you type:
$ cd /t
and then repeatedly press the Tab key, you’ll see items beginning with the letter “t” in
the / (filesystem root) directory.


2) What are the relative advantages of installing MySQL using the package,
 directory archive (tarball or "no-install", or compiled methods?

This is not an easy question. I would almost always prefer to use a package because of the
step by step instructions and I have always been successful. There would have to be a compelling
reason to compile from source, although as the book states, you can improve performance significantly,
so maybe this is a good choice for a production environment. I don't see any advantages to the 
directory achive (no install method) unless you just want to try out mysql or only use it occasionally.
I normally have my mysql server running continuously.

3) How do you verify the integrity of downloaded packages?

A simple way to do this is to compare checksums generated by a digest algorithm such as MD5.
A digest algorithm takes some data (for example, an RPM file) as input and calculates
a 128-bit number, or checksum, from this data.I have used MD5 checksums frequently.

4) How do you add the MySQL bin directory to the operating system path?

By adding the desired directories to the $PATH Environment variable in .bashrc in linux (my $PATH  already includes all necessary directories) In windows, add the correct directory to the $PATHenvironment variable using the MYSQL Server Instance Connection wizard. Apple, I expect is similar to Linux.

Additional Exercises (not in the book): 
1) Document how you installed MySQL and any issues you came across with installation.
 
I am using an existing MySQL installation which I installed as part of the LAMP package from the 
Ubuntu repository It is version 5.1.67. There doesn't seem to be an easy upgrade path to version 5.5. 
I did find a page(http://www.ovaistariq.net/490/a-step-by-step-guide-to-upgrading-to-mysql-5-5/) that
gives detailed instructions, but chose not to do it at this point. I had no problems with the initial
installation. Normally I use PHPMYADMIN and WEBMIN for db administration. I have used the command line interface occasionally. After reviewing all the alternative methods for installing MySQL I don't think I would have any insurmountable difficulties. I also use mysql in a WAMP installation in windows running in Virtualbox, but I don't use it too often.
 

2) Document where important files should be.
Since the book was published in 2007 location of important files for me is quite different from the book
suggested locations. Here goes:

Database files      - /var/lib/mysql/
Mysql basedir    - /usr:/usr/bin:/usr/sbin: others under the usr directory
configuration data  - /etc/mysql/
logfiles            -/var/log/

Do not forget to do a pull request when your homework is complete.
